Training & fine-tuning quickstart (#5034)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/training.rst

``bert-base-uncased`` model and a randomly initialized sequence
classification head on top of the encoder with an output size of 2.

This is useful because it allows us to make use of the pre-trained BERT
encoder and easily train it on whatever sequence classification dataset we
choose. Models are initialized in ``eval`` mode by default. To train, be sure
to first call ``model.train()``. When we call the model with the target labels
as a tensor, the first returned element is the Cross Entropy loss between the
classifier predictions and the passed labels. The following demonstrates
how you could instantiate a pre-trained model and perform a single update on
a dummy sentiment classification batch:

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers import BertTokenizer, BertForSequenceClassification, AdamW

    tokenizer = BertTokenizer.from_pretrained('bert-base-uncased')
    model = BertForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained('bert-base-uncased')
    model.train()
    optimizer = AdamW(model.parameters(), lr=5e-5) # any PT optimizer works

    text_batch = ["I love Pixar.", "I don't care for Pixar."]
    labels = torch.tensor([1,0]).unsqueeze(0)

>     encoding = tokenizer.batch_encode_plus(text_batch, return_tensors='pt',

Reviewer: Can you switch to the new API?

                                           pad_to_max_length=True)
    input_ids = encoding['input_ids']
    attention_mask = encoding['attention_mask']

>     outputs = model(input_ids, attention_mask=attention_mask, labels=labels)

Reviewer 2: It is mentioned before but I would put a comment here with the fact that we pass the `labels` to get back the `loss` directly. This might surprise someone who is not familiar with the library yet.

Or to avoid comments, maybe we could split the codes in several smaller pieces: for now this is all the explanations then all the code, so the reader forgets part of the explanation when they reach the middle of the code. Maybe we could have use a more progressive approach and  split the code in smaller bits with their explanation just before?

    loss = outputs[0]
    loss.backward()
    optimizer.step()

Of course, you can train on GPU by calling ``to('cuda')`` on the model and
inputs as usual.

We also provide a few tools to make it easier to apply more complex

> fine-tuning procedures. Here's an example using weight decay and learning

Reviewer 2: "using weight decay (except for the bias or layer norm parameters) and"

rate scheduling (omitting the data preparation steps for brevity):

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers import get_linear_schedule_with_warmup

    device = torch.device('cuda')
    model = BertForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained('bert-base-uncased').to(device)
    model.train()

>     # Prepare optimizer and schedule (linear warmup and decay)

Reviewer 2: Same as before, consider splitting the code at each commented line and introduce in prose what happens after.

    no_decay = ['bias', 'LayerNorm.weight']
    optimizer_grouped_parameters = [
        {'params': [p for n, p in model.named_parameters() if not any(nd in n for nd in no_decay)], 'weight_decay': 0.01},
        {'params': [p for n, p in model.named_parameters() if any(nd in n for nd in no_decay)], 'weight_decay': 0.0}
    ]
    optimizer = AdamW(optimizer_grouped_parameters, lr=1e-5)
    scheduler = get_linear_schedule_with_warmup(optimizer, num_warmup_steps, num_train_steps)

    # iterate over batches of preprocessed training data
    for batch in train_loader:
        optimizer.zero_grad()
        

>         input_ids = batch.input_ids.to(device)

Reviewer 3: you can call `batch.to(device)`

Reviewer 2: This is where the "we omit the data preparation part" is annoying. Previously the batch was a dict, now it's something that has an `input_ids` attribute and even a magic method.

If the data is prepared the same way as before, it should call `input_ids = encoding['input_ids']` like before. If it's not, the preparation step should be presented separately (and maybe explain why there is that magic `to` method.

        attention_mask = batch.attention_mask.to(device)
        labels = batch.labels.to(device)

        outputs = model(input_ids, attention_mask=attention_mask, labels=labels)
        loss = outputs[0]
        loss.backward()
        optimizer.step()
        scheduler.step()

We highly recommend using :func:`~transformers.Trainer`, discussed below, which conveniently
handles the moving parts of training Transformers models with features like
mixed precision and easy tensorboard logging.

Freezing the encoder
--------------------

In some cases, you might be interested in keeping the weights of the
pre-trained encoder frozen and optimizing only the weights of the head
layers. To do so, simply set the ``requires_grad`` attribute to ``False`` on

> the encoder parameters, which can be accessed with the ``base_model``

Reviewer 2: I would add a remark that `base_model` works for every task-specific model in the library. It's a useful convention for the reader to know.

submodule:

.. code-block:: python
   
    for param in model.base_model.parameters():
        param.requires_grad = False

.. _tensorflow:

Fine-tuning in native TensorFlow 2
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

TensorFlow models can also be trained natively in TF2. Just as with PyTorch,
TensorFlow models can be instantiated with
:func:`~transformers.PreTrainedModel.from_pretrained` to load the weights of
the encoder from a pretrained model. The model can then be trained using the
Keras ``fit`` method. Here's an example of fine-tuning a sequence classifier
with a pre-trained encoder on MRPC:

.. code-block:: python
    
    import tensorflow as tf
    import tensorflow_datasets
    from transformers import TFBertForSequenceClassification, BertTokenizer, glue_convert_examples_to_features

>     # Load dataset, tokenizer, model from pretrained model/vocabulary

Reviewer 2: Same comment as before.

    tokenizer = BertTokenizer.from_pretrained('bert-base-cased')
    model = TFBertForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained('bert-base-cased')
    data = tensorflow_datasets.load('glue/mrpc')

    # Prepare dataset for GLUE as a tf.data.Dataset instance
    train_dataset = glue_convert_examples_to_features(data['train'], tokenizer, max_length=128, task='mrpc')
    valid_dataset = glue_convert_examples_to_features(data['validation'], tokenizer, max_length=128, task='mrpc')
    train_dataset = train_dataset.shuffle(100).batch(32).repeat(2)
    valid_dataset = valid_dataset.batch(64)

    # Prepare training: Compile tf.keras model with optimizer, loss and learning rate schedule
    optimizer = tf.keras.optimizers.Adam(learning_rate=3e-5)
    loss = tf.keras.losses.SparseCategoricalCrossentropy(from_logits=True)
    model.compile(optimizer=optimizer, loss=loss)

    # Train and evaluate using tf.keras.Model.fit()
    history = model.fit(train_dataset, epochs=2, steps_per_epoch=115,
                        validation_data=valid_dataset, validation_steps=7)

This example uses the built-in
:func:`~transformers.data.processors.glue.glue_convert_examples_to_features`

> to tokenize MRPC and convert it to a TF ``Dataset`` object which can be

Reviewer 2: Tf -> TensorFlow (in prose, let's not abbreviate it :-) )

passed to ``model.fit()``.

With the tight interoperability between TensorFlow and PyTorch models, you

> can even save the model and then reload it as a PyTorch model:

Reviewer 2: This is very cool. Does it work backward too? (e.g. can I load a PyTorch-pretrained model back in TF?) Mention the answer either way.

I think this is a cool feature so it should be mentioned in the intro, the reader might not know of it.

.. code-block:: python

    model.save_pretrained('./save/')
    pytorch_model = BertForSequenceClassification.from_pretrained('./save/', from_tf=True)

.. _trainer:

Trainer
^^^^^^^

We also provide a simple but feature-complete training and evaluation
interface through :func:`~transformers.Trainer` and
:func:`~transformers.TFTrainer`. You can train, fine-tune,
and evaluate any Transformers model with a wide range of training options and
with built-in features like logging, gradient accumulation, and mixed
precision.

Using the trainer requires first creating a model and defining a

> :func:`~transformers.data.DataCollator`, which is responsible for taking in a batch and preparing

Reviewer 2: It's actually become a simple function now, so you should use it to simplify the example.

Author: It looks like `Trainer` still expects an object with a `collate_batch` method though. Thoughts @julien-c?

them to be fed into the model.  The Trainer will expect the collated batches
to be a dictionary with keys corresponding to the kwargs that will be used to
call our model. Below, we define a collator in the case where a batch
consists of a list of dicts and returns a single dict with the examples
concatenated.

.. code-block:: python

    from transformers import DataCollator

    class MyCollator(DataCollator):

>         def collate_batch(self, batch):

Reviewer 2: This can become just a function `my_data_collator`, also mention that `default_data_collator` would do this too (or at least it will very soon ^^)

Author: I opted to just remove the data collating since most cases shouldn't need a custom one now. Lmk what you think.

            input_ids = torch.stack([example['input_ids'] for example in batch])
            attention_mask = torch.stack([example['attention_mask'] for example in batch])
            labels = torch.stack([example['label'] for example in batch])

            return {
                'input_ids': input_ids,
                'attention_mask': attention_mask,
                'labels': labels
            }

> Now, you can simply define a :func:`~transformers.Trainer` and

Reviewer 2: This is exactly what I have in mind when I suggested splitting the code on commented lines before, it works much better in a style like this for a tutorial.

:func:`~transformers.TrainingArguments` and the all
of the underlying work is done for you.

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 2: Could we use the same style as the usage page and have this block able to switch between PyTorch and TensorFlow? That would be super cool.

Training and fine-tuning
========================

Model classes in 🤗 Transformers are designed to be compatible with native
PyTorch and TensorFlow 2 and can be used seemlessly with either. In this
quickstart, we will show how to fine-tune (or train from scratch) a model
using the standard training tools available in either framework. We will also
show how to use our included :func:`~transformers.Trainer` class which
handles much of the complexity of training for you.

This guide assume that you are already familiar with loading and use our

> models for inference; otherwise, see `Usage <./usage.html>`_. We also assume

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
models for inference; otherwise, see the :doc:`task summary <task_summary>`. We also assume
```
